- Read Chapter 20 (Managing Distributed Systems): Microservices and Containers to migrate to distributed systems.

  ## Working with Monoliths and Microservices

  - Two main architectural structures in modern apps: Monoliths and **Microservices** (Service-oriented architecture - SOA)
  - SOA: MS as self-contained components that represent business functions. Updated and deployed independently. Components communicate via tech-agnostic interfaces (e.g. APIs or HTTP reqs). Advantages: maintenance, easier to read and troubleshoot. Option to choose different languages and tooling for different MS that form an app.
  - It is wise to start-off a business idea or MVP with a Monolithic Architecture for efficiency and then scale later on and rethink the architecture when needed.
  - Delete unused code when transitioning from Monolithic to MS.
  - A well architected monolith is much preferable to sloppily developed microservices.
  - SOA with MS allows to split work and developers can own different pieces and the different components are developed paralelly.
  - Resources can be assigned separately and appropriately as needed for the different components (not possible in a Monolithic app).

  ## Designing Great APIs

  - The idea is to expose ONLY what other developers/applications need access to. API receives (HTTP) reqs and sends responses.
  - Identifiers: noun and verb (what you need and what you want to do with it) => Then API sends response with an update on what happened.
  - Important to have a consistent design: API endpoints with nouns and using the appropriate verbs. Pluralize endpoints (e.g. /users instead of /user). Use right HTTP response codes, not just generic ones all the time like 200, 400, 500...
  - Good idea to version the API before endpoint, for example: GET v1/users, v2/users... Good idea as we release new versions of the API.
  - Other good points are: paginating responses, formatting data, communicating errors in responses...

  Skimmed through **Containers: Much More than Virtual Machines**. Need to read this again more focused as there's a lot of information here.
